2013/10/27
msgget - get a System V message queue identifier
ftok  - convert a pathname and a project identifier to a System V IPC key
msgctl - message control operations
msgrcv, msgsnd - message queue operations
ipcs - show information on IPC facilities
ipcrm  - remove certain IPC resources

semget - get a semaphore set identifier
semctl - semaphore control operations
semop, semtimedop - semaphore operations

shmat, shmdt - shared memory operations

Net Programming

netstat -anup / -antp - Print network connections, routing tables, interface statistics, masquerade connections, and multicast memberships
socket - create an endpoint for communication
man 2 bind - bind a name to a socket
listen - listen for connections on a socket

Stream socket:

In computer operating systems, a stream socket is a type of interprocess communications socket or network socket which provides a connection-oriented, sequenced, and unique flow of data without record boundaries, with well-defined mechanisms for creating and destroying connections and for detecting errors.
A stream socket transmits data reliably, in order, and with out-of-band capabilities.
On the Internet, stream sockets are typically implemented on top of TCP so that applications can run across any networks using TCP/IP protocol. SCTP may also be used for stream sockets.

Datagram socket:
In computer operating systems, a datagram socket is a type of interprocess communications socket or network socket which provides a connectionless point for sending or receiving data packets.[1] Each packet sent or received on a datagram socket is individually addressed and routed. Order and reliability are not guaranteed with datagram sockets, so multiple packets sent from one machine or process to another may arrive in any order or might not arrive at all.
The sending of UDP broadcasts on a network are always enabled on a datagram socket. In order to receive broadcast packets, a datagram socket should be bound to the wildcard address. Broadcast packets may also be received when a datagram socket is bound to a more specific address.

Internet (IP) protocols
vim /etc/protocols

bzero - write zero-valued bytes - The bzero() function sets the first n bytes of the area starting at s to zero (bytes containing '\0').

man -k so: Search all commands starting with so
    Search the short descriptions and manual page names for the keyword printf as regular expression.  Print out any matches.  Equivalent to apropos printf.
man htonl,  htons,  ntohl,  ntohs - convert values between host and network

Byte order
